Good afternoon, everyone.
My name is Matt McManuus,
and I'm from the
Final Cut Server engineering team.
So today we're going to talk
about deploying Final Cut Server.
So Final Cut Server is a
new technology from Apple.
Just to give you an idea,
how many people actually
have Final Cut Server now?
So about half of you,
so you probably have a few
questions about how you might
actually deploy it and use it.
And for the rest of you,
you probably have some questions about
exactly what it is and what it does.
So today,
I'm going to go over two main objectives.
The first one is to
teach you about the mechanisms that are
involved in deploying Final Cut Server.
And secondly, I'll show you some steps
involved in an actual deployment.
So to do these, I'm going to go through
the following areas.
I'll give you a brief
introduction to the product,
and then I'll go over the key
components of Final Cut Server that
are used in a deployment.
Then we'll talk about the seven
steps of deploying Final Cut Server.
I'll talk about post deployment,
so the care and feeding
of Final Cut Server.
Then we'll talk about
some other considerations.
And finally, we'll have some Q&A.
So Final Cut Server was designed
to address two key areas.
The first one is media asset management.
And the second is workflow automation.
So we'll talk about the
media asset management first.
So the problem there is just the huge
amount of content that you find in
a typical installation these days.
Maybe it's on an XSAN or on a
FireWire drive on a shelf somewhere.
But more and more,
there's all this file-based
media to deal with,
and even other media as well.
So Final Cut Server enables
media asset cataloging.
And that comprises of a few key areas.
First of all, Final Cut Server is able
to catalog all file types.
So any file type at all,
not just media files.
It can also catalog Word documents, PDFs,
graphics, anything.
And when it catalogs them,
it creates what we call
an asset out of it.
And we'll see that in a
bit more detail later,
as well as how you get stuff
in and out of Final Cut Server.
We also have customizable
metadata for all of our assets.
So you can actually choose what
metadata you have for a given asset,
and you can add additional fields.
And finally,
there's also the ability to read
metadata from both QuickTime files and
XMP metadata from other file formats.
For certain file types,
we're able to automatically generate
small clip proxies and thumbnails.
So in the case of a QuickTime file,
will use Compressor to make a
H.264 smaller version of it,
so you can actually use those
proxies to browse quickly and easily.
And we have the ability to synchronize
automatically with the file system.
So you can add devices
to Final Cut Server,
which we'll see.
And then as files are
added to those devices,
Final Cut Server can
automatically catalog them and
add assets for the new files.
Now once you've got
everything catalogued,
you need to be able to find it.
So in Final Cut Server we've got
the ability to have some powerful
search tools that allow you to search
on either a given metadata field,
or where an asset is located,
or a number of other
different parameters.
There's also the ability to have some
access controls and access restrictions,
so you can limit what a given user
can see and do with the system.
There's also the ability to then
integrate with archival systems.
So you can move assets from, say,
an online XN environment
to a tape-based archive.
Now,
workflow automation is another key area.
And for this, we have what we call a
watch and respond system.
And the idea is that we have
these actions or responses,
for example,
a copy or a move to a device.
And then we can apply those actions
to various events.
For example,
if I change a piece of metadata,
it might trigger actions which will copy,
convert to a H.264, send to a web server,
and send an email.
There's a simple way to
configure some of the workflow,
and we'll see how we can do that
from the Assistant Preference pane.
And as required,
you can build out some much
more complex workflows in our
advanced administration area.
Now another key area is collaboration.
So Final Cut Server enables
users to collaborate.
There's the ability to have checking
in and checking out of assets,
including Final Cut Pro projects.
[Transcript missing]
which then enables me to revert back
to a previous version as required.
And you can also set up
automated notifications,
so you can be notified when, say,
a project is checked in.
And then you can use these to build
out a review and approve process.
Final Cut Server is deployed
typically in an XServe environment.
The requirement is Leopard.
So Leopard Server or Leopard Client.
So for sort of mid-size to
larger size installations,
there might be an XServe
with a compressor farm
attached for the transcoding.
and perhaps a XAN backend
or attached RAID storage.
But the design of it is that it
can also run in small work groups.
So if you've just got a few users,
or if you're a user who has, say,
a Mac Pro and a laptop,
and you want to catalog and
share files and use some of the
features in Final Cut Server,
you can install it just on a
Leopard client onto a Mac Pro.
It's a client-server-based architecture.
So you've got the server,
which installs on Leopard,
but the client is Java-based.
And that can run on
either Tiger or Leopard,
but it can also run on
Windows XP or Vista.
So it enables your Windows users
to actually access the assets
and participate in perhaps the
review and approve process.
I'll talk a bit more
about the architecture.
Once you've got
Final Cut Server installed,
You then connect it to devices.
So the devices might be
XSAN or a network file server,
or perhaps some local storage.
And once you've connected
to these devices,
the Java client accesses
Final Cut Server.
And then can upload assets or
move assets from device to device,
or perhaps download assets
to their local machine,
or check out projects
to work on them locally.
and this is all done over
the Ethernet network.
Now, if you've got remote users,
you can give them access
to your assets as well.
And the recommended approach
to do this is using a VPN.
We do not recommend putting
Final Cut Server onto the open internet.
Your assets are a bit too valuable to
be able to risk that type of access.
So to talk a bit more about what's
actually part of Final Cut Server,
there's three main processes
that are installed.
We've got this when you're
on the actual server.
So we've got the store D,
or what we call the store server.
That's the brains of Final Cut Server.
So that coordinates all
of the client interaction.
and the other things
that it's actually doing.
It's got a PostgreSQL backend database,
so all of the metadata for the
assets and configuration and other
things are stored in that database.
And there's also the LDS,
or the device server.
And that takes care of the heavy lifting,
so the talking to devices and
to the transcoding engines.
So to give you a bit more detail,
the client,
the Java client when it's run up will
talk to the store server or store D,
and all of the communication for
the searching or the changing of
metadata is done through that,
talking to that process.
And then the delivery of assets or
the thumbnails comes from the LDS.
Now Compressor is, which does all of the
transcoding in Final Cut Server,
will talk to the LDS.
And the LDS also talks
to the various devices.
So any exchange with devices or moving
of content is done by that process.
So, there's two ways to
administer Final Cut Server.
The first way is through
the system preference pane.
And that's available on the
server on which you installed
the Final Cut Server server.
[Transcript missing]
You can access an administration area.
And this allows you to do some
much more advanced administration.
It's very flexible,
but that flexibility does
come with some complexity.
So what you might find is as you deploy,
you might do a subset of deployment
actions in the system preference pane.
For example, add devices or add some
simple automations.
And then you might tweak
or add some more advanced
Workflows or change metadata
in the Java administration.
So now I'll talk about some of the
key components of Final Cut Server.
So firstly, we've got devices,
and then we've got the assets,
productions, metadata,
[Transcript missing]
So the devices, as we've seen,
can be added to Final Cut Server.
and the devices can be
of a few different types.
There's a local file system,
so you can add any directory on
the local machine as a device.
You can also add a XSAN as a device,
as well as the network file systems.
So there's support for AFP, SMB, NFS,
and FTP.
And finally, there's a special device
type in Final Cut Server,
and that's the content base.
Now the Content Base is a managed
device which allows files to be
stored in a non-hierarchical way.
and it also allows for files
to be stored without worrying
about file name collisions.
Essentially, it's a bucket for files.
So examples of how it's used is in
Final Cut Server there's a device
which is set up to store all of the
proxies which are generated for assets.
So that proxy's device is a content base.
In addition, the versions.
So all of the versions of an asset
are stored in another content base.
An example of how you might
actually use a content base in a
production is for a graphics library.
So you might have a graphics
library which might have,
say, 50,000, 100,000 images,
and you can just add them to a device
which is a content base without having
to worry about the file structure or...
Worrying about if, you know,
this file name is going
to overwrite this one.
It's all taken care of
by Final Cut Server.
So there's also a special idea that we've
got in Final Cut Server with Advices,
and that's edit in place.
So when you've got a device
which is not edit in place,
and the user tries to use a file,
the file will be cached
on a local machine.
What edit in place allows is
if a user wants to use a file,
for example,
they're using a QuickTime file
in a Final Cut Pro project,
The edit in place allows a link directly
to the asset on a mounted file system.
So the key example here is XAN.
So when you add an XAN device,
edit in place is set up automatically.
So when the file is used,
it's not cached, there's nothing which
goes across the network.
A direct link is provided to
where the file is on the XAN.
Now,
it is possible to add edit-in-place paths
[Transcript missing]
You can actually set that
up for edit in place,
so when users use the files,
they're not downloading locally.
They're pointing directly to
where they are on the AFP share.
and archive devices.
So you can actually set up any of the
device types as an archive device.
For example, SMB, AFP, all of these,
when you add a device,
there's the checkbox you
want to enable as an archive.
So once you've actually
got an archive device,
it becomes a target for moving a file,
is the founder of XAN,
a software development company
that has been working on the
XAN system for over a decade.
So now let's talk a bit about assets.
So once you've got these devices set up,
You can actually start to create assets.
So an asset is created for
every file that is catalogued.
An asset has a few very
key things about it.
So it's got all the metadata.
So we can see here some various metadata.
So I've got title, category, description,
plus any additional metadata fields
that you want to add to the asset.
In addition, the asset has resources.
So it has links to files.
The most important link for
a given asset is what we call
the primary representation.
And this was the file that caused the
asset to be created in the first place.
So it also has other resources,
which are the proxy representations.
So for example, here we've got a clip
which has a thumbnail,
a poster frame, and a clip proxy.
So to read it, so the asset,
every asset has metadata
and it has these resources.
An asset,
you can actually check it in and
check it out using the client.
And you can also archive an asset.
There's a special class of asset which
are created for Final Cut Pro projects.
So when you upload a
Final Cut Pro project to the system,
it creates this
Final Cut Pro project asset.
And the key difference with these assets
is they have what we call elements.
And the element corresponds
to the contents of the bin
of the Final Cut Pro project.
and each element has a
link to a master asset.
So when you upload a
Final Cut Pro project,
any assets which aren't already
managed by Final Cut Server will
be created as new assets.
And the elements will be added to
the Final Cut Pro project asset.
So here we can see I've got an element
which has a link back to a master asset.
And it has,
tells me what project it's being used in.
So, before I move off assets,
I'll just be clear about how
they can actually be generated.
So,
you can do it in a few different ways.
So, for a given device,
you can set up what we call a scan,
and a scan will just catalog or
find any content on that device
or on a subfolder on that device.
and you can set up these scans
on some kind of schedule.
So perhaps every five minutes, every day,
whatever you desire.
So every new file that these scans find,
it creates the asset.
You can also create assets
when you actually upload a
file using the Java client.
You can create assets when you put
A special folder,
which we call a watch folder,
and that can generate assets.
And we'll see a bit of that later on.
And finally, assets are generated
through this mechanism,
through uploading a
Final Cut Pro project.
Final Cut Server analyzes that project.
It sees what media files are
being used in the project.
and it uploads them to the device if
they're not already on a managed device,
and it creates assets for them.
So that's assets.
Now we'll talk a bit about productions.
and productions in Final Cut Server is
just a container for assets.
So you can make a new production,
and you can just add assets to it,
either manually, drag and drop,
or when you upload, you can choose,
I want to add these assets
into a given production.
So these just allow you to
collect assets for a given task.
So for perhaps a show or
some other little project,
a production can be made
to collect all of that.
And just like assets,
they have metadata associated with them.
So let's actually talk
about that metadata.
Metadata is very key to Final Cut Server.
So we've seen that the metadata can be
used for either assets or productions,
but it also drives a lot of
actions inside of Final Cut Server.
One might say it's a
metadata-driven piece of software.
The key about metadata is there
are a few different levels when
you actually construct metadata
for assets or productions.
At the top level are metadata sets.
So a given asset or production
belongs to a metadata set.
So when I upload a QuickTime file,
I actually choose what set
I'm gonna use for that asset.
or when I do a scan,
I'm actually deciding for all the files
which are cataloged from the scan,
what metadata set they're
going to belong to.
So sets are at the top level.
Now sets can contain groups.
And you can have multiple
groups for a given set.
And then to the groups,
you can actually add the fields.
So the description, keywords, job number,
So you've got the sets, the groups,
and the fields.
And then for the actual, for the fields,
you can have lookups.
And so a lookup allows
you to have a pull-down,
and then allows you to do a few things.
So you can actually restrict the choices
available for a given metadata field.
It can simplify the searching
when users want to find assets.
and it can also ensure that automations
are actually triggered correctly.
So you might have a given automation
which is triggered off a given lookup.
Now, metadata is also used to do
a few other special things.
So there's some special metadata
groups that allow you to do things like
[Transcript missing]
And to administer the metadata,
you've got to use the
client administration.
So if you want to add fields,
so forth and so on,
it's the client administration.
And another key component is the
ability to then map from metadata in,
as we saw, QuickTime or XMP,
into internal fields and back out.
If that's an area of interest to you,
then I can highly recommend
a talk we've got tomorrow,
which will be discussing
that in some great depth.
So now let's talk about
access restrictions.
So with access restrictions,
you can limit what a given user
can actually do with the system.
So the way these work is that you define
permission sets in Final Cut Server.
and the permission set can restrict
access in the following ways.
The first way is by
restricting on asset metadata.
So I can say that this
given permission set
can only see things which are either,
say, approved, ready for review,
or completed.
So when the status equals
any of those three things,
then the user who is tied to that
permission set can only see those assets.
And I'll show you some of that later.
In addition,
you can restrict on production metadata.
is the founder of Final Cut Server.
He's been working with
us for over 20 years.
He's
You can also restrict
on devices themselves.
So for a given device,
you can say that this permission
set cannot delete from this device,
cannot even see assets on this device,
cannot create assets on this device.
And finally, there's the ability to
restrict based upon traits.
And this allows you to do some
things like turn off given metadata
sets for a given permission set.
Once you've actually got
some permission sets built,
and Final Cut Server has about
five or six out of the box,
then you can actually
tie the permission sets
to Mac users and groups.
So on Leopard Server,
this would tie directly
into Open Directory,
and on Leopard Client,
You can do the same sort of
thing using the users and groups
in the system preference pane.
So a user who's been put
into one of these groups,
will then get the permission set
that's been mapped to that group.
And again, I'll show you some of
that a bit later on.
The next key area I want to
talk about is transcoding.
So Final Cut Server uses
Compressor for all of the
QuickTime and audio conversions.
The great thing about this is you can
actually set up a compressor cluster to
increase the speed of the transcoding.
And Final Cut Server handles all of the
still image conversion locally by itself.
- I'm using some system processes,
but the idea is that if you
want to farm off all of the
QuickTime and audio conversions that
can be put off to a compressor cluster,
and the Final Cut Server machine
will then take care of
just the image transcoding.
You can make custom compressor
settings in Compressor,
and these can be added
to Final Cut Server.
And you can also restrict what
compressor settings are actually
used by Final Cut Server itself.
So you can say that
in a given deployment,
we're only actually going to use
four or five different settings.
So you can actually turn
off the other settings.
or perhaps as a play out server
which needs a particular kind of
QuickTime or some other format.
So you can make sure that any
copies to that device only have
that particular setting available.
and he can also extend Compressor
with the use of plugins.
So if you wanted to go
out to different formats,
for example, Flash, MXF, GXF,
you could use the
Episode Pro plugin from Telestream.
Or if you wanted to write out, say,
a DPX sequence,
you can use a Glue Tools plugin.
Finally, you can use QuickTime components
to extend the ability
to read certain formats.
So one example here
is with Windows Media.
So you can actually use the flip for Mac.
QuickTime component to enable
reading of Windows media files.
Finally,
I want to talk about automations.
Automations are tremendously powerful and
enable you to build out the workflows,
but there's quite a bit to them.
The idea is that you can create
responses to perform actions,
So copy and delete, or email,
and we'll see some examples of those.
And then the responses are
triggered from either a watcher,
which is just a folder on a device
which Final Cut Server is looking at,
or a schedule,
which is going to do something on either
a periodic or an absolute point in time.
And finally, my favorite, subscriptions.
And we'll go into a lot more
detail on subscriptions.
So,
you can create some simple automations,
as we've seen using the
system preference pane,
and as we've discussed,
go into far more detail using
the client administration.
So let's talk a bit about responses.
There are 14 different
responses available.
For example, copy.
So this response enables you to copy to
a given device and optionally transcode.
So I could copy to a web
server and transcode to H264.
Or copy to my Playout server
and transcode to ProRes.
There's the ability to send an email.
So you can send an email to a given user.
and the powerful thing about this
response is it has metadata substitution.
So you can actually
substitute in metadata from
the asset to build the email.
There's also a scan response,
which I've discussed,
and this can be set up on a schedule
to catalog content on a given device.
and an archive response,
so this can be triggered to
move an asset to an archive.
One example of this is
you can actually have a,
set up a system to be able to, say,
archive everything older or everything
which has not been accessed for,
say, over 30 days on the XAN to archive.
So you can build out
these sort of workflows.
And there's also the delete response,
which you can attach,
which will delete a file.
A set metadata response,
so you can actually set
metadata on a given asset.
and my favorite,
the execute command or script response.
So this enables you to execute a
executable on the local server.
and again we'll be going
into much more detail on this
execute command or script in our
integration talk tomorrow at 10:30.
And there are about seven or eight
other responses that you can call upon.
So once you've actually
built out these responses,
they can be triggered
in a number of ways.
So we've seen the watches.
So it's a
Any new or modified file on a
folder or subfolder of a device?
can then do these various actions.
So there might be a watch folder set up.
to then convert to a given
format and send to a device.
or to go into a content base,
send an email to the
reviewer to review it.
There's also the subscription.
So this is where we subscribe to
events on assets or productions.
and we can filter on metadata.
Now let me go into a
bit more detail here.
So we've got the idea of events.
Now, an event is something
like asset creation,
or
asset modification or asset deletion.
So these are events in Final Cut Server.
So when you set up a subscription,
it's actually looking for these events.
So it's looking when assets are modified.
And then you can further pare
down exactly what it's going
to trigger based upon metadata.
So an example which I'll show
you later is to be able to...
sent out an email based upon when an
asset is set to say ready for review.
So there's a subscription to
when an asset is modified,
and it's looking for when my status
field has changed to ready for review.
And when all of that is matched,
then it actually does these responses
which have been attached to it.
And finally, there's the schedule,
which is, as I said,
can run on an absolute or periodic time.
So that's the key components
of Final Cut Server.
Now I'm going to talk a
little about deploying.
And I've got here seven steps
of deploying Final Cut Server.
These are the steps which I've built
up based upon my experience with both
Final Cut Server and its predecessors.
and they're certainly not
to hard and fast rules.
But what they allow is you to build
on the previous steps to actually
get to a successful deployment.
So the first step is perhaps
the most critical one,
and that's actually planning.
Because the actual,
you'll sort of see as we go through this,
that there's all these other
things that you need to configure,
and if you actually know what
you're trying to do before
you install the software,
you're much better off.
Now the next step is just the
installation and initial configuration.
So this is installing the software
onto an XServe or a Mac Pro.
and doing some initial configurations.
So, setting up a compressor cluster
and connecting up to it.
or setting up what your
outgoing SMTP server is.
Just these initial configuration steps.
Then it's a matter of configuring
the metadata and transcode settings.
So it's a matter of working out
what metadata you want to track,
you know, what metadata is used in
the facility at the moment,
and what you want to have in the assets.
And then what Transcode
settings do you want to use?
So what are the house settings?
What are the settings that are
required for my different devices?
All of that.
Then it's adding devices and
setting up scans for those devices.
And the reason that I do it
this way is that when I add
devices and setting up scans,
I'm actually going to be
using the metadata fields and
the transcode settings that
I created in the previous step.
So once the devices are set up,
and the scans have started to happen,
you can then add,
create the permission sets.
and then configure your open
directory users to then tie
users to those permission sets.
Then the next step is to start
configuring the workflows.
So, to set up the watch folders,
or to set up the various
responses and triggers,
And finally, once all that's done,
configure the backups and
various notifications that
you want to get as an admin.
This is not to say that once you've
actually gone through this deployment
that you can't change anything later.
There's plenty of
post-configuration that can be done,
and tuning which is done to actually get
to the kind of system that you're after.
But these are just some steps to enable
you to go through the initial deployment.
So let's talk about planning first.
So the key point here is
there's certain questions that
You need to be able to answer
before you can move on.
So that's things like, you know,
what are the devices that
I'm going to connect to?
What's the various
underlying infrastructure?
Then what transcode
formats am I going to use?
Or what various formats are
going to be used in the facility?
What are the users and groups?
So you might have, say,
some producers and some
editors and some managers.
So it's a matter of thinking
about what sort of access do you
want to give to these people?
So you want to say the editors will want
to have access to perhaps all of the
raw material and other bits of material.
And then the producers may
only see things which have been
completed or ready for review,
or perhaps an education environment.
You can have different
groups for each class.
and add the users to a given class,
and they can only see the content
which has been set up for that class.
Then it's a matter of asking, you know,
what metadata do I want for my assets,
and what mappings do I want
to have from external formats?
So if you're using, for example,
a P2 camera or some other file-based
camera which supports metadata,
do I want to actually see
those fields in my assets?
Which ones do I want to get?
How do I want that to work?
What are the workflows?
How does a job get from
inception to completion?
or how do I want things to be submitted,
or what's my review and approve cycle?
Finally, you need to work out what the
backup and recovery policy will be.
And I'll talk a bit
more about backup later.
But that's, you know,
how are you going to get the system
back up and running after a fire?
I've got an example here,
which is Acme Productions.
Just a typical production house.
They've got some Final Cut Pro editors,
they've got some producers using
either MacBooks or Windows laptops,
and they need to output for a
Playout server and a website.
So if I was actually going
to plan this deployment,
one of the first things I'll do
is actually make a system diagram,
which will sort of outline
the various devices.
And the great thing here
is I can very easily see,
oh, okay,
I need to add my web server as a device,
my Playout server.
It needs these formats.
And, oh, my XAN.
And, oh, there's my compressor.
All that sort of stuff.
These allow you to sort
of quickly identify,
okay, here are my devices,
here's how it's going to set up.
Then I'll build out some
sort of workflow diagram,
so sketch out what the workflow is.
Often I'll use paper and pen,
but I might sort of have,
so here's how a job gets
from start to finish.
And here are the various
forks or various things.
And so when I actually build
out these workflow diagrams,
I can quickly identify, oh,
I need an email response here,
and it's got to be triggered
by this piece of metadata.
Or perhaps I need a copy response here to
then go out and convert to this format.
So, it's by diagramming the system
and then talking to the users
to then work out the workflow,
that you can then start to build out
a list of the various things that you
want to configure in Final Cut Server.
So now I'm actually going to
show you some of the next steps,
and we can see how they are on a real
Final Cut Server client server thing.
So here is Final Cut Server.
I have it installed already.
The key note about the
installation is when you install,
there are a few key
things you need to decide.
There's the idea of different profiles.
There's like four or
five different profiles.
Film, production, education.
What these do is they set up
different metadata sets and groups.
So we've seen what they are.
They just allow for
subtly different profiles.
is the founder of Final Cut Server.
He's a great guy, he's a great guy.
He's a great guy.
And the other key question in
the installation process is
where are my proxies going to go,
and where is my default
media going to go?
Now, I'll talk about this a bit later on,
but the key answer there
is it's very important.
It needs to go on some rated storage.
So either system drives on
an XSERV which are rated,
or on a direct attached promise
RAID unit or some other RAID unit,
or on some sort of XSAN.
So here we have Final Cut Server.
So this is the client
for Final Cut Server.
and we can see here that
I've got my various assets.
So I've actually got
A few devices already connected
to this server and I've actually
started to scan those devices.
And so if I have a look at one of these,
I've got my asset with
my various metadata.
and I can use my search tools
to be able to find things.
So if I wanted to find all of my, say,
pipeline masters material,
I can use just my search tools
to find all my pipeline material.
And once I've actually
built out a search,
I can also,
here I've got an advanced search area.
So I can choose particular fields
that I want to actually search upon.
So I can say, you know,
I want to see all my pipeline
material which is stored on my XN.
Or I'd like to see any assets which
have been created in the last two hours.
So once you actually start
to build these searches,
you can actually save them.
So I can save my pipeline
search as a smart search.
So I've got a button down
the bottom right-hand corner.
Save a smart search.
And it can say pipeline.
And so now I've got my save search.
Or I can see some other save searches,
my raw files and my assets,
so forth and so on.
Now what I want to do is my step three,
which is configure metadata
and transcode settings.
So right now,
I have some metadata for my assets.
I've got my different metadata groups.
Here are the groups.
I've got asset, I've got a P2 info group,
where I'm mapping in
is the founder and
CEO of Final Cut Server.
He's been working on a
number of new projects,
including the first one,
which is called Final Cut Server.
He's been working on a
number of new projects,
including the first one,
which is called Final Cut Server.
He's been working on a
number of new projects,
including the first one,
which is called Final Cut Server.
So let's say I wanted to
add some fields and groups.
I can quite easily do that by going
to my Java administration over here.
I get a little warning saying,
"Do I really want to do this?" Yes, I do.
I think I know what I'm doing.
And so I've got the option here to add a
"My fields and my groups and do various
mappings as well as create lookups."
So let's say I wanted to create a field
in the group for my Acme productions.
So I can quite,
let's say I wanted to have a job
number and also have a client lookup.
So I've got different clients,
so I want to give the
clients different access.
So to do that, I can...
create a metadata field and call it, say,
job number.
I've got different
options for my data type,
so it might be a Unicode or perhaps in
this case it's going to be an integer.
Give it different categories.
So I've got my job number field,
and now I can add another
field which might be a client.
I'll give it category of none.
Fantastic.
And then for once I actually
have these set up,
I can add different lookups.
And it can make a lookup for client.
And it might have, you know, XYZ.
XYZ.
Another one called ABC.
ABC.
So I've got two simple clients there.
Save Changes.
And now I can create my group for Acme.
Make a metadata group, Acme.
I can then choose my fields.
So I've got my job number field,
and my client field.
And to the client,
I can actually assign it the
lookup which I had just made.
So I can say, field lookup, client.
I can add some actions.
And then I can say that it's going
to be in my media metadata group.
So if I do that, and now have a look at
one of my media assets,
I'll now see I've got my Acme.
Metadata Group.
This asset has metadata set of media,
And if I look at my Acme group,
I'll see I've now got my job number.
[Transcript missing]
So that is the creating of the metadata.
Then it can create transcode settings,
if I so chose,
in Compressor and add them in.
We're running a bit short on time,
so I'm going to keep pushing through.
So then the next step is
the adding of devices.
And as I said, the two different ways
of the administration.
So if I go into--
My system preferences.
I've got my
Final Cut Server administration.
And so I've got a few
different options here.
So I can assign my group permissions.
So here I've got my permission sets
which I've created in Final Cut Server.
And these are the local groups.
And I can also add devices here.
So let's say I wanted to add a -- this
content folder on my desktop as a device.
So I can add Hit Plus,
and here we can see the
different device types.
So I've got local network or XN.
So this is going to be a local device.
I can call it content.
And I can just drag
in my local directory.
So now I've got it added as a device.
And in the next step, I can actually say,
is it an archive device?
No, not in this case,
but this is where I would set that up.
Here I can set up the scan settings.
Now, when I set up a scan
in the preference pane,
I'm scanning the entire device.
If I set up scans using
the client administration,
I have the ability to scan
different subfolders of a device.
Now the reason why that's important
is when I set up this scan here,
I do an ad-only scan every minute.
I'm setting up a metadata set.
So these are the various
sets that I have available.
Audio, document, graphic, media project.
And I can make additional sets,
but all of the assets on this
device are going to be cataloged
and added to my media metadata set.
So, if I wanted to have a bit
more fine-grained control,
What I'm able to do is to, in the...
Client administration to be able
to specify a subfolder on a device.
And for that subfolder,
I can assign a different metadata set.
So for example, on an XN,
I might have graphics,
and I might have clips,
and I might have audio.
And I want different metadata sets
for each of those classes of asset.
So I'd set up different scans
pointing at my subfolders of my XN.
In addition, when I set up scans in
the Java administration,
I can do additional things
like set up filters.
So I can say,
only scan things which match
something ending in PSD or MOV.
So if you want to scan items on a
given device and you only want to
grab the QuickTime files or the other
"If you want to use content, you know,
particular content,
you can restrict the scans in that way."
So the other,
so once we've actually added a device,
so I've actually set up my scan here.
And in about a minute,
I'll actually see the scan
progressing in my job page.
So the job page shows everything
that the server is doing.
So whilst I'm waiting for that,
I can actually start to
think about my users.
So if I want to say I've got my client,
I only want to see their stuff.
So stuff which is XYZ,
which is marked as ready for review.
So that's all I want my clients to see.
So I'm just going to mark two
or three assets like that now.
Ready for review and client is XYZ.
So what I can then do is
build a permission set
which then restricts the permission
set to only allowing assets where my,
where I've got, so I can,
if I look at my permission sets,
I can duplicate my reviewer set.
You might call this XYZ.
And then in my asset filter,
I can say the status,
I only want them to see ready for review.
So here I've set up my status
equals ready for review.
[Transcript missing]
So I can do things like add
my client to that filter.
It will now show up in my permission set.
So the steps from that point is,
I've got my permission set,
it's restricting to only seeing
those two or three assets.
Then I create a group.
I put my person from XYZ in that group,
so when they log in as that user,
they'll only be able to
see two or three assets.
Whatever has been marked
as ready for review,
where client equals XYZ.
And so once I've actually
added my devices,
added my users and permissions,
It's then a matter of
configuring the workflow.
So setting up my watches and my scans.
And a very simple example of
that is if I wanted a folder,
On my device here,
I could set up a folder
and send to play out,
for example.
So then if I go to my
system preference pane,
I can really,
I can easily set up a new automation.
And so this is gonna be
a file system watcher.
And I can give it a name, you know,
send to play out.
And I can choose, you know,
what device I'm going to watch.
Well, I'm going to watch my content
device and I'm going to look at
the folder I created on there,
which will be sent to Playout.
is the founder of Final Cut Server.
He's the founder of the
company that runs the
So I can add a copy response and
choose where it's going to go to.
So it's going to go to my web server.
It might go to a subfolder
on my web server.
And then I can choose my
different transcode settings
that are set up for that device.
So we can see here that we've got,
you know, four responses to choose
from in the pref pane,
and I can go into much
more detail in the...
[Transcript missing]
And finally, is the making of backups.
Now with the backups,
Final Cut Server will
backup the database.
And that's all.
So you can actually set up point-in-time
backups by saying backup now.
or you can actually schedule a backup.
So you can say, you know,
back up at 1:00 AM every night.
And so once you've actually
set up those backups,
you're able to restore the
database and the various
preferences associated with it.
But that's it.
So a very important part of a
backup is the ability to then
backup the other material.
So that might sort of be
included in some system-wide
backup or other bits and pieces,
but when you need to restore,
you can restore the
is the founder of Final Cut Server.
He's the founder of the backup
using the restore mechanism here.
And as long as all of the files
which Final Cut Server was
It'll be just fine,
just as it was before you left.
So if we go back to the slides.
[Transcript missing]
So, monitoring is very, very important,
and there's a few different
mechanisms to do that.
So, there is the ability
to look at a job page,
and a, there's also,
you can look at the logs in
the client administration.
and you can look at the system logs.
In addition,
if particular trans codes are failing,
then you can look at a
compressor batch monitor.
So,
And then if you want to actually
monitor particular failures,
so say you wanted to be notified
when a job to your very important
playout server had failed.
You can set up a subscription
and an email to subscribe to
failures going to that device,
and send an email to an administrator.
So you can configure alerts on events,
so a job failure, so forth and so on.
And you should also use external
system tools to actually monitor the
health of the servers themselves.
And there's plenty of options
for doing that sort of things,
but things like, you know,
you want to know the disk usage,
the bandwidth utilization, etc.
Now the job page, so this is an example
of some jobs failing.
Red is bad.
And then if I double click on a red job,
I can actually see what the error was.
So here I've got an error
submitting to Compressor.
So then I can actually
have a look in Compressor,
and in this case,
my Compressor cluster had failed,
so I had to resolve that issue,
and then I can continue my transcoding.
And there's also the logs in the
client administration which show
you exactly what the server is
doing at a given point in time.
Finally, just a few other
considerations before I finish.
So the first one is scalability.
So how does the system scale?
As we've seen,
Final Cut Server has a database backend.
As assets are added to
the Final Cut Server,
the resources required
for the database increase.
It's a matter of increasing both the
memory and potentially the disk speed
and the processor speed to actually
be able to serve out more assets.
It's hard to give some exact
figures on number of assets,
but the system has been tested
to go beyond millions of assets.
But there are some considerations
for search performance when you
do get to that kind of level.
So there's two different searches,
you know, matches and contains.
Matches quicker, contains slower.
Because contains has to look across
all permutations of all fields,
whereas matches is much quicker.
You can definitely get to a lot of
assets as long as the underlying
infrastructure is able to support that.
and then how many users.
Again, it's very dependent on
what the actual usage is.
So what are the various usage patterns,
or are people using edit in place,
or are they actually
downloading through the network?
Support a large number
of users on a system,
but it depends on the
underlying infrastructure.
And then finally, how much throughput?
Well, the great thing that we're
seeing is compressor can be
used to increase throughput.
So as your throughput
requirements increase,
you can just add more nodes
to a compressor cluster.
And just to talk a bit about hardware,
so again, the system is very scalable,
so you can install onto a Mac Pro,
or I've got it running
on a laptop over there.
But for a medium to large deployment,
you really want a nice, fast 8-core XRF.
You definitely want rated storage,
because you really don't want your
proxies or your other versions
to go away because a disk failed.
and roughly,
we're suggesting sort of about
eight gigabytes for every
quarter of a million assets.
and as required,
you can actually use technologies
like Ethernet link aggregation
to actually increase the possible
bandwidth to your system.
Finally,
I'll just talk a bit about one way
of setting up the hardware which
enables for a backup to be used.
So, if I have Final Cut Server running
on an XServe,
And if I have all of my proxies
and other variable media on an
attached RAID unit or on an XAN,
If I'm backing up the database,
as we saw through the preference pane,
to that attached RAID or that XAN,
Then when that XServe fails,
I can very simply install
Final Cut Server on another XServe,
You know, restore the database,
and because all of the
references are the same,
Then my system is back up and
running exactly as it was.
So it's not high availability,
but it's a very quick way
to restore operations.
So that is,
that's all I'm going to talk about.
So as I've plugged a few
times in the session so far,
we've got to talk tomorrow,
which is talking about
integrating with Final Cut Server.
And that's in Russian Hill at 10:30.
And we're going to go into much
more detail upon the integration
with things like Podcast Producer,
with Ruby on Rails, and with Spotlight.
And then how to use things like
the Execute Script Response,
and much more detail upon the
Watch and Response system.
and in relation to that,
just in the session in here afterwards,
there's actually a session on
how to build Rails applications.
So if you're going to come tomorrow,
you've got any interest in Rails,
I can highly recommend that one.
And we've also got two labs.
So we've got a lab right after
this downstairs in the IT lab,
and there's one tomorrow at 2 o'clock.
Now, I think that I have,
just to summarize very quickly,
we've got, so the key components to
Final Cut Server that we saw,
so we've got the media asset management
side and the workflow automation side.
We've got the flexible
configuration options,
and we've seen the possible steps
that you can use in a deployment.